# SURF-2021-Protoplanetary-Disk-Evolution

Developed a new astrophysical model of early planetary formations considering streaming instability and pebble accretion theory to predict bulk compositions of terrestrial planets. Implemented this model by numerically solving diffusion-advection equations in Python and adding new parameter spaces to account for magnetorotational instability (MRI). Currently using this model to predict other habitable Earth-like planets and understand the formation of Earth.

## Paper Abstract

Chondrites are likely candidates for the building blocks of Earth and understanding the processes that could produce bulk compositions similar to Earth’s is crucial in constraining how and where planets formed and grew in the early Solar System. In particular, the chemical composition of chondrites has a puzzling characteristic as chondrites exhibit surprising depletions in refractory elements including Al, Ca, and Mg. However, we still lack an astrophysical model to bridge the gap between the early stage of disk evolution and the formation of planetesimals because the formation of planetesimals within the evolution of the protoplanetary disk still remains unclear. To this end, we built a self-consistent model solving for the disk evolution from the dust condensation to the planetesimal growth stage. The key mechanisms for plan- etesimal formation considered in the study are pebble accretion and the transition of magnetorotational instability (MRI). In our model, we consider the effects of different α values due to MRI as well as dust to gas ratio thresholds and accretion timescales that onset streaming instability. Our results demonstrate that the turbulence from an alpha transition from MRI to 10^−4 in conjunction with streaming instability and pebble accretion creates lower pressure regions in which dust and pebbles accumulate within the terrestrial region. However, our model doesn’t account for two chemically distinct Mg-rich reservoirs which are necessary for explaining why Earth and enstatite chondrites share similar isotopic composition but different bulk compositions. We anticipate that our model will be used to constrain the viable parameter space for the formation of planetesimals as well as be a motivation to explore the mechanisms that produce a greater depletion in refractory elements.
